# CH 2-2

### 2.4.7 Binaries and bitstrings

A binary is a chunk of bytes. You can create binaries by enclosing the byte sequence between << and >>> operators.

```elixir
#3-byte binary
iex(1)> <<1, 2, 3>>
<<1, 2, 3>>
```

Each number represents the value of the corresponding byte. ***If you provide a byte value bigger than 255, it’s truncated to the byte size:***

```elixir
iex(2)> <<256>>
<<0>
iex(3)> <<257>>
<<1>>
iex(4) <<512>>
<<0>>
```

You can specify the size of value and thus tell the compiler how many bits yo use for that particular value:

```elixir
iex(5)> <<257::16>>
<<1, 1>>
#16 bit == 2 byte 
#16-bit form is written 00000001 00000001. -> 2^8 + 2^0 = 257
```

This expression places the number 257 into 16 bits of consecutive memory space. The output indicates that you use 2 bytes, both having a value of 1.

```elixir
iex<6> <<1::4, 15::4>>
<<31>>
#1 of 4 bit, 15 of 4 bit
#why add?
# :: menas mapping to bit directly?
# 0001 1111
<<1, 2>>
#It means 1 of 8 bit, 2 of 8 bit
<<1::4 2::4>>
#tt means 0001 0010
<<18>>
```

> :: operator : assign number to bits
>
> Expression is restricted to 8 bits 



### 2.4.8 Strings

Elixir doesn't have a dedicated string type. Instead, strings are represented by using either a binary or a list type.

#### Binary Strings

The most common way to use stings is to specify them with the familiar double-quotes syntax

```elixir
iex(1)> "This is a string"
"This is a string"
```

Elixir provides support for embedded string expressions. You can use #{} to place an Elixir expression in a string constant.

```elixir
iex(2) "Embedded expression: #{3 + 0.4}"
"embedded expression: 3.14"
```

Elixir provides another syntax for declaring strings, so-called *sigils*. In this approach, you enclose the string inside ~s():

```elixir
iex(5)> ~s(This is also a string)
"This is also a string"
iex(6)> ~s("Hello world")
"\"Hello world"\"
iex(7)> ~S(pi : #{3 + 0.14})
"pi :\#{3 + 0.14}"
# #{} is not worked
```

there’s a special heredocs syntax, which supports better formatting for multiline strings. ***Heredocs strings start with a triple double-quote.*** The ending triple double-quote must be on its own line:

```elixir
iex(9)> """
Heredoc must end on its own line
"""
"Heredoc must end on its own line\n"
```

<> operator can concatenate string

```elixir
iex(10)> "Sring" <> " " <> "concatenataion"
"String concatenation"
#same with + operator of c++ string
```

#### Character Lists

The alternative way of representing strings is to use single-quote syntax:

```elixir
iex(1)> 'ABC'
'ABC'
#Same
iex(2)> [65, 66, 67]
'ABC'
iex(3)> [58, 59, 60]
':;<'
iex(3)> 'Interpolation: #{3 + 0.14}'
'Interpolation: 3.14'
iex(4)> ~c(Character list sigil)
'Character list sigil'
iex(5)> ~c(Unescaped sigil #{3 + 0.14})
'Unescaped sigil \#{3.14}'
iex(6)> ~C(Unescaped sigil #{3 + 0.14})
'Unescaped sigil \#{3 + 0.14}'
iex(7)> '''
Heredoc
'''
'Heredoc\n'
# Similar with string
```

> Same with char a[] in C/C++
>
> In Elixir not array but list
>
> In C++ string function is not compatible with char
>
> It is same too in elixir, so need converting
>
> ```elixir
> iex(1)> String.to_charlist("ABC")
> 'ABC'
> ```

### 2.4.9 First-class functions(lambda)

In Elixir, a function is a first-class citizen, which means it can be assigned to a variable.

```elixir
iex(1)> square = fn x ->
x * x
end
iex(2) squaer.(5)
25
```

The variable square now contains a function that computes the square of a number. Because the function isn't bound to a global name, ***it’s also called an anonymous function or a lambda.***

You may wonder why the dot operator is needed here. ***The motivation behind the dot operator is to make the code more explicit.*** In contrast, ***the expression square(5) is invoking a named function defined somewhere else in the module.***

> use dot operaotr(.) to distinct function and lambda

```elixi
iex(1)> print_element = fn x -> IO.puts(x) end
#Enum.each/2
iex(2)> Enum.each(
	[1,2,3],
	print_element
)
#Other way
iex(3)> Enum.each(
	[1,2,3]
	print_element = fn x -> IO.puts(x) end
)
```

Elixir makes it possible to directly reference the function and have a more compact lambda definition. Instead of writing *fn x → IO.puts(x)* end, you can write *&IO.puts/1.*

The & operator, also known as the *capture operator*, takes the full function qualifier — a module name, a function name, and an arity — and turns that function into a lambda that can be assigned to a variable.

```elixir
iex(6)> Enum.each(
		[1,2,3]
		&IO.puts/1
	)
#Application of capture(&) operation
iex(7)> lambda = fn x, y, z -> x * y + z end
iex(8)> lambda = &(&1 * &2 + &3)
```

#### Closure

***A lambda can reference any variable from the outside scope:***

```elixir
iex(1)> outside_var = 5
5
iex(2)> my_lambda = fn ->
    IO.puts(outside_var)
    end
iex(3)> my_lambda.()
5
```

As long as you hold the reference to my_lambda, ***the variable outside_var is also accessible.***

***This is also known as closure: by holding a reference to a lambda,***

***A closure always captures a specific memory location. Rebinding a variable doesn't affect the previously defined lambda that references the same symbolic name:***

```elixir
iex(1)> outside_var = 5
iex(2)> lambda = fn -> IO.puts(outside_var) end
iex(3)> outside_var = 6
iex(4)> lambda.()
5
```

>- ***lambda is holding variable and variable is allocated to other memory***
>- ***So variable is not changed even original variable is changed***



### 2.4.10 Other built-in types

There are a couple of types that still haven't be presented

- A *reference* is an almost unique piece of information in a BEAM instance.

  ```elixir
  Kernel.make_ref/0 #(or make_ref)
  #if you restart a BEAM instance, reference generation starts from the beginning,
  #so its uniqueness is guaranteed only during the lifetime of the BEAM instance.
  ```

- *pid*(Process identifier) is used to identify an Erlang process.

- The *port identifier* is important when using ports. It is mechanism used in Erlang to talk to the outside world.

### 2.4.11 Higher-lever types

After all, Elixir code runs on BEAM, so its type system is heavily influenced by the Erlang foundations. Elixir provides some higher-level abstractions.

#### Range

A range is an abstraction that allows you to represent a range of numbers.

```elixir
iex(1)> range = 1..5
iex(2)> 2 in range
true
iex(3) -1 in range
false
```

Ranges are enumerable, so functions from the Enum module know how to work with them.

but it’s good to be aware that the memory footprint of a range is very small, regardless of the size. A million-number range is still just a small map.

Keyword Lists

A keyword list is a special case of a list, where each element is a two-element tuple, and the first element of each tuple is an atom.

```elixir
iex(1)> days = [{:monday, 1}, {:tuesday, 2}, {:wednesday, 3}]
#more elegant way
iex(2)> days = [monday: 1, tuesday:2, wednesday: 3]
iex(3)> KeyWord.get(days, :Monday)
1
iex(4)> KeyWord.get(days, :noday)
nil
iex(5)> days[:tuesday]
2
```

Keyword lists are often used for small-size key/value structures, where keys are atoms.

Don’t let that fool you, though. Because you’re dealing with a list, the complexity of a lookup operation is O(n).

You may wonder if it’s better to use maps instead of keywords for optional arguments.

 ***A keyword list can contain multiple values for the same key. In addition, you can control the ordering of keyword list elements — something that isn't possible with maps.*** 

#### MapSet

A *MapSet* is the implementation of a set — a store of unique values, where a value can be of any type.

```elixir
iex(1)> days = Mapset.new([:monday, :tuesday, :wednesday])
#MapSet<[:monday, ;tuesday, :wednesday]>
iex(2)> MapSet.member?(days, :monday)
true
iex(3)> days = MapSet.put(days, :thursday)
#MapSet<[:monday, :thursday, : tuesday, :wednesday]>
#->Order is changed
iex(5)> Enum.each(days, &IO.puts/1)
monday
thursday
tuesday
wednesday
```

##### Times and Dates

```elixir
iex(1)> date = ~D[2019-01-31]
iex(2)> date.year
2019
iex(3)> time ~T[11:59:12.00007]
iex(4)> time.hour
11
```

### 2.4.12 IO lists

An IO list is a special sort of list that’s useful for incrementally building output that will be forwarded to an I/O device, such as a network or a file.

***Each element of an IO list must be one of the following:***

- Integer in the range of 0 to 255
- Binary
- Io lists

```elixir
iex(1)> iolist = [[['H', 'e'], "llo,"], " worl", "d!"]
iex(2)> IO.puts(iolist)
Hello, wordl!
#Append to an IO list
iex(3) iolist = [iolist, "from"]
[[[['H', 'e'], "llo,"], " worl", "d!"], "from"]
```

## 2.5 operator

Most of the operators are defined in the Kernel module, and you can refer to the module documentation for a detailed description.

| Operator  |                         Description                          |
| :-------: | :----------------------------------------------------------: |
| ===, !==  |                  Strict equality/inequality                  |
|  ==, !=   |                   Weak equality/inequality                   |
| <,>,<=,>= | less than, greater than, less than or equal, greater than or equal |

```elixir
iex(1)> 1 == 1.0
true
iex(2)> 1 === 1.0
false
```

Logical operators work on Boolean atoms.

- :and
- :or
- :not

## 2.6 Macros

Macros are arguably one of the most important features Elixir brings to the table, compared to plain Erlang.

```elixir
# Simple macro provided by elixir
unless some_expression do
	block_1
else
	block_2
end
# It means
if some_expression do
	block_2
else
	block_1
end
```

The main point to take away is that macros are compile-time code transformers.

## 2.7 Understanding the runtime

The Elixir runtime is a BEAM instance. Once the compiling is done and the system is started, Erlang takes control.

### 2.7.1 Modules and functions in the runtime

The VM keeps track of all modules loaded in memory. When you call a function from a module, BEAM first checks whether the module is loaded. If it is, the code of the corresponding function is executed. Otherwise the VM tries to find the compiled module file — the bytecode — on the disk and then load it and execute the function.

#### Modules Names and Atoms

```elixir
defmodules Geometry do
...
end
iex(1)> Geomerty == :"Elixir.Geometry"
true
```

This isn't an accident. When you compile the source containing the Geometry module, ***the file generated on the disk is named Elixir.Geometry.beam, regardless of the name of the input source file.***

In fact, if multiple modules are defined in a single source file, the compiler will produce multiple .beam files that correspond to those modules.

You can try this by calling the Elixir compiler (elixirc) from the command line

```
$ elixirc source.ex
```

The first time you call the function of a module, BEAM tries to find the corresponding file on the disk. The VM looks for the file in the current folder and then in the code paths.

When you start BEAM with Elixir tools (such as iex), some code paths are predefined for you. You can add additional code paths by providing the *-pa* switch:

```
$ iex -pa my/code/path -pa another/code/path
```

### Pure Erlang Modules

In Erlang, modules also correspond to atoms.

Erlang uses simple filenames, which is the reason for this call syntax. But the rules are the same as with Elixir modules. ***In fact, Elixir modules are nothing more than Erlang modules with fancier names (such as Elixir.MyModule)***

#### Dynamically calling functions

Somewhat related to this discussion is the ability to dynamically call functions at runtime. This can be done with the help of the Kernel.apply/3 function:

```elixist
iex(1)> apply(IO, :puts, ["Dynamic function call."])
Dynamic function call
```

Kernel.apply/3 receives three arguments: the module atom, the function atom, and the list of arguments passed to the function. ***Together, these three arguments, often called MFA (for module, function, arguments), contain all the information needed to call an exported (public) function.***

### 2.7.2 Staring the runtime

There are multiple ways of starting BEAM. So far, we've been using iex,

#### Interactive Shell

When you start the shell, the BEAM instance is started underneath, and the Elixir shell takes control.

It’s important to be aware that input is interpreted, because that means it won’t be as performant as the compiled code. On the other hand, modules are always compiled. Even if you define a module in the shell, it will be compiled and loaded in memory, so there will be no performance hit.

#### Running Scripts

The elixir command can be used to run a single Elixir source file. Here’s the basic syntax:

```elixir
$elixir my_source.ex

#This call first does the in-memory compilation of the MyModule module and then calls MyModule.run. After the call to MyModule.run finishes the BEAM instance is stopped. 
$ elixir scripts.exs

#If you don’t want a BEAM instance to terminate, you can provide the *--no-halt* parameter
$ elixir --no-halt scripts.exs
```

*--no-halt*  This is most often useful ***if your main code (outside a module) starts concurrent tasks
that perform all the work.*** 

#### The mix Tool

***The mix tool is used to manage projects that are made up of multiple source files.***

```
$ mix new my_project
# It generate new diretory(Name is my_project)
$ cd my_project
$ mix compile
Compiling 1 file (.ex)
generated my_project app
```



